Spreadsheets are a big
part of data analytics.
The sooner you make friends
with spreadsheets, the better.
Trust me, they'll save
you a lot of time as
a data analyst and make
your whole job easier.
This spreadsheet is one example
of how an organized
spreadsheet might look.
In this video, we'll
demonstrate some of
the basic spreadsheet
concepts for
all of you who are
new to this world.
This might be a review
for some of you
more experienced
folks out there,
but it never hurts to
practice what you know.
Plus, you might still
learn a trick or two.
I showed you this image earlier.
Let's explore it further
because it's a great example of
the three main features
of a spreadsheet: cells,
rows, and columns.
They'll be part of
almost everything
you do in a
spreadsheet for making
a simple grocery list to
analyzing a complex dataset.
I use spreadsheets to
manage everything from
my own personal finances to
the annual homecoming party
my friends and I
have every year.
I'm the planner, so I use
a spreadsheet to keep
things in order,
making sure we have
everything we need.
Speaking of keeping
things in order,
columns are organized vertically
in a spreadsheet and
are ordered by letter.
And the rows are organized
horizontally and are
ordered by number.
So when you talk about
a specific cell,
you name it by combining
the column letter
and the row number where
the cell is located.
For example, in
this spreadsheet,
the word row is in cell D3.
Let's get started in
an actual spreadsheet.
You can complete
all of the steps
in just about any
spreadsheet program.
Let's get to know your
spreadsheet a little better now.
We'll start with some
basic operations.
Keep in mind, as an analyst,
you won't always create
your own dataset.
But for now, let's do just that.
I'll click in cell A2 and
type my first name like this.
Then I'll click in cell
B2 and type my last name.
Don't worry if your name
doesn't fit in the cell,
you can always make columns
wider if you need to.
All you have to do
is click and drag
the right edge of the column
until your name fits.
Or you can use the
text wrapping feature,
which will set cells to
automatically change
their height to allow the
text in the cell to fit.
To use this feature,
select the cells, columns,
or rows with text,
then use the format menu
to look at the text
wrapping options.
It is automatically set to allow
the text to overflow
out of the cell.
But you can wrap the text
instead so all of
the text is visible.
The clip option will
cut off the text in
the cell so only the text
that fits is visible.
There it is. We've added data.
Now let's label it.
This is important
for organization.
Adding labels to the top of
the columns will
make it easier to
reference and find data later
on when you're doing analysis.
These column labels are
usually called attributes.
An attribute is a
characteristic or quality of
data used to label a
column in a table.
More commonly, attributes are
referred to as column names,
column labels, headers,
or the header row.
Let's add some
headers to our table.
I'll click in cell A1 and
type the words first name.
In cell B1 I'll type last name.
We'll make these attributes
bold so they stand out more.
Spreadsheets can get really big,
so you want to make
sure your data is
clearly labeled
and easy to find.
I can use my cursor to select
the cells with the attributes.
Then I'll click the bold
icon to make them bold.
Looking good so far.
Ready to add some more data?
Let's start with
some new attributes.
First, I'll add a column for
the number of siblings by
typing siblings in cell C1.
Then I'll add two
more attributes
in the next two columns.
Let's go with favorite
color and favorite dessert.
I'll make them bold too.
To fit the labels in the cells,
I'll adjust the size of the
columns just like before.
Now, keep in mind,
there are more ways to adjust
the size of the
columns and rows.
If you have questions
about using spreadsheets,
a quick search online will
usually help you
find what you need.
We've also included
a reading with
more tips and information
about spreadsheets.
OK, let's get back to it.
Now, I can add my own
data to the dataset.
I'll type in how many
siblings I have and
my favorite color and dessert
in the appropriate cells.
Next, I'll add data
for two more people.
We now have three rows of data.
In a dataset, a row is also
called an observation.
An observation includes
all of the attributes
for something contained
in a row of a data table.
In this case, row 3
is an observation
of Willa Stein because we
see all of her
attributes in this row.
So now we know spreadsheets let
you do lots of things with data.
You can store and organize
data like we've done
in this spreadsheet.
But you can go even further
and recognize existing data too.
Here, I'll show you how.
Let's say we want to
organize our data
by how many siblings
each person has.
There's a simple way to do that.
First, we'll need to select
all of our columns with
data so that all of it
is reorganized together.
Then we can go to our data menu.
Here we have some options.
Let's select sort range.
This will let us choose how
to organize the column.
Next, we'll choose A to Z,
which will organize
our numbers in
order from smallest to largest.
Now, we want to watch
out for header row,
which is the word siblings,
the attribute for this column.
We'll check this box.
This makes sure the word
siblings stays in place.
Now we're ready to sort.
Voila, we just reorganized
our data by sorting it from
the smallest number
to the largest.
As we go further,
you discover lots of
other ways to work with
data in a spreadsheet,
including functions
and formulas.
Let's finish with a quick
example of a formula.
You can think of formulas as
one way of manipulating
data in a spreadsheet.
Formulas are like a
calculator, but more powerful.
A formula is a set of
instructions that performs
a specific action using
the data in a spreadsheet.
To do this, the formula uses
cell references for the
values it's calculating.
Let me show you. Here we go.
We'll click in the next cell
in the siblings column.
Then we'll type an equal sign.
All formulas begin
with this symbol.
Next, we'll type in the cells
we want to add together.
In this case, we'll type
in C2 plus C3 plus C4.
Now we can press "Enter".
There it is. The
formula has given us
the total number of siblings
represented in this dataset.
We've just analyzed some data.
We'll want to store the
data for later use.
In Google sheets,
a spreadsheet is
automatically saved
in your Google Drive.
For Excel and other
spreadsheets,
you'll save them as a file.
Now you know some basics
for using spreadsheets.
Once you're used
to these concepts,
you'll be able to learn even
more about spreadsheet tools.
Feel free to re-watch
this video and
practice on your own.
You can even make your own
version of the spreadsheet
with your own data. Bye for now.